Fixes and upgrades as of 2-20-96.  Second release of Marks Music Program.

1. File selector now accepts up to 512 names in one directory.  If more
   files are there, you are informed with a screen display when the dir
   is selected.  Overflow count will be the files not available.

2. Previous File Selector allowed two pages of files, selectable with
   the Arrow Icon Button next to the DISK icon on the left.  The current
   version allows 10 pages maximum.  Use the left mouse button to move
   forward and the right mouse button to go back.  If 3 column mode is
   active (to show extensions), then 57 names are on each page, else 76.

   Last name on page 1 becomes the first on page 2, etc. as with most
   other 'computer paging functions'.  The last page will always have
   the last file position blank, and will show as many files as will
   fill the screen (including some of those from the previous page).
   This is not a bug, but was designed to have the maximum number of
   filenames viewable at one time.  The last page might have only had
   two, or ten, files for example.

3. If the mouse (pointing hand) is in the filename area, pressing the
   'S' key will display the count of files in the current directory,
   up to 512.  The filename box changes to 'FILES  512' for example.
   Normally, as you move around the filenames and they are highlighted,
   you will see the file length (in bytes) of each.

4. The program now tries to determine the complete path from which it
   was booted and gives this for the Drive Letter and Path when you
   first enter the file selector.  Original version only determined the
   Drive booted from, and not any folders or sub-directories.

5. If you have a hardrive with more than one partition (drive letter),
   it will 1. assign the floppy A drive  2. assign the drive and path
   booted from  3. try to assign one other hardrive partition letter.
   This is for the 3 'memorized' paths under the word DRIVE.  The 1st
   release always assigned A B and C, but could have (and still can)
   been changed to any available drive.  If there is no hardrive or
   ramdisk (only floppies connected), the letters A B A will be the
   default.  (Booted from a floppy with hardrive turned off, etc.)

6. You can now re-read the current path, directory, or floppy using the
   ESC key, just as the GEM desktop.  Previously, one had to left click
   the drive letter again (which you can still do).

7. If you do a save operation to either A or B floppies, a free disk
   space routine makes sure you have enough room.  This disk space
   check has been disabled for drives C to P, as it was discovered it
   took too long.  The free space for these drives can still be read
   by intentionally clicking on the word DRIVE above the letters.  The
   drive letter selected will then be checked for free bytes and shown
   in a dialog.  This value is then used to replace a 'default' value
   arbitrarily chosen at boot time.  This disk space thing is still
   being 'perfected' and if you run out of space, it is possible you
   may 'crash' to desktop.  If you think you are running low, please
   click the DRIVE word to check before you save.  Don't know what the
   results will be otherwise.

8. The fixed midi buffer (for .mid files) has been increased to 330k.
   Previously was 200k.  Program refuses to load a file too large.  I
   have been seeing a few 300k+ files!  In a future version I intend
   to dynamically allocate the buffer, but until then, it is fixed in
   size.  The program also requests a chunk of memory equal to the size
   of a midi file loaded when it needs to convert the resolution to 240.
   GEM also needs some free memory for its dialogs.  If you run many
   accessories or anything which reduces available memory, the program
   may not function correctly and GFA's internal routines may give you
   a warning.  Previous version of program ran on 1 meg machines with
   no accessories running (or very small ones).  The extra 130k and new
   program length might not run on these machines or may behave in an
   erratic manner.  Most users (of this program anyway) have at least
   2 megs of memory, so I don't think this should be a concern.

9. It has been determined that most screen accelerators are not
   compatible with my switch to medium rez.  I do not know how to inform
   them of the change, and don't know if they ever resolved the GEM
   part of the conflict (requiring rebooting in the new rez to setup
   mouse and screen co-ordinates etc).  Turbo ST for example will show
   double characters with many missing, because it still thinks it is in
   low resolution.  I would think Warp 9 and others would have the same
   problem.  This will never be 'fixed' because I do not open a GEM
   window or use the message 'pipeline', or GEM features (beyond what
   GFA internally implements).  I draw directly to video memory in many
   cases (for speed), which bypasses GEM/VDI altogether!  It is not
   possible to rewrite this Assembler code without compromising the
   program!  (Especially a FREE one!).  Sorry.

10.  Additionally, I don't think the program can be made to 'multitask'
   and although I am trying to figure out how to call accessories, it
   may not be possible unless I use a GEM menu system (which I didn't
   care for in my program).  I will be adding code to select an alternate
   file selector (call the GEM or alt.), but this hasn't been done yet.
   One will lose the ability to Medley or Jukebox play a list of songs,
   because my file selector is used to 'mark' the files and their order.
   When the GEM fileselector has been added, I will likely add the
   ability to medley play all the files in any directory, and maybe even
   create an 'album' file of paths/songs in any directory.

11.  Speaking of MEDLEY PLAY (list of songs), although you could select
   up to 512 songs (that would take a very long time to do individually),
   after the first 255 or 256 the numbering system overflows as a byte
   variable/array holds the number of the file for playing order.  It
   would take a really long time to play even 200 files (or select them),
   so I don't think this is a big concern.  It has no problem playing
   all the files in a directory (none marked or selected), and doesn't
   flinch with 512!  BTW, the old GEM TOS before 1.4 can't read more
   than 300 filenames in a directory, and the Little Green Selector I
   have tried (dated '89) will only read 384!

12.  It has been remarked that users wish the program ran in medium rez.
   This will never be possible because of too much custom assembler code
   that would have to be rewritten.  Colors are used extensively to ID
   midi channels, voices, etc., and a reduction to 4 colors would destroy
   the programs ability and usefulness.

EOF
