DRUMS MENU:            (should be Drums and Miscellaneous goodies!)
 TURN BELL OFF - The Bell Sound after Alerts, Dialogue Boxes, or File Sel-
                 ector appears, may be turned off with this toggle switch.
 DRUMMER   OFF - Turns on "Experimental" internal Drummer. If a number key
                 from 0-9 is pressed during song play, that pattern will
                 play, providing a DrumKit (of patterns) is loaded, else
                 you must create some patterns with the EDIT PATTERN mode.
                 Patterns (limited for now) may be saved from EDIT PATTERN
                 Screen or DEFINE DRUMS Screen.  Press the "B" key after all
                 patterns are created and all Drum voices are defined as
                 these are saved in the same file.  If the file DEFAULT.KIT
                 exists at boot time, it will be loaded.  The Drummer is not
                 completed and is only here as an experiment.
                 You might want to change the name DEFAULT to some other
                 name while on the FILE SELECT SCREEN using Disk Function
                 'RENAME FILE' which allows the left eight characters to
                 be changed (but not the extension!).  Do this before a
                 save operation with the 'B' key to avoid overwriting the
                 original file!  To see the file on the FILE SELECT SCREEN
                 change the Path to the wildcard extension '*.*', then
                 click once on the name 'DEFAULT.KIT' which puts the name
                 'DEFAULT' in the Filename Box.  Then click the Disk Icon
                 at top left to get DISK FUNCTIONS Dialogue Box.  Click
                 'RENAME' and OK to Edit the name. Follow the ALERT BOXES.
                 If DRUMMER is ON when song is saved, the last pattern
                 it was playing (0-9 keys) is saved to the songfile. When
                 the Song is loaded, the DRUMMER will be turned on and
                 initialized to that pattern. (Just like MIDI CLOCK).
 SHOW COLBEATS - Displays numbers at top of note columns which indicate
                 how many Midi Beats occur in that column before proceed-
                 ing to the next column at play time.  Useful during song
                 entry or timing check.  Also numbers are displayed at
                 Scroll Play time if left turned on.  The note or rest
                 which determines a columns "beat" count is the shortest
                 duration one in the column.  If you add a rest or note
                 of shorter duration than those already in the column, the
                 display will be immediately updated and you can see the
                 effect.  This is a toggle switch.  If you left click the
                 'current note' box next to the Tempo Box, a Help image
                 will pop up showing the beats per note duration.  Useful
                 when trying to fix timing errors.
 AUTO  LEDGERS - A toggle switch that when on, will show full ledgers above
                 and below the staff during song entry as a help for those
                 that need it.
 HIDE ANYTHING - Brings up a dialog that allows you to show or hide various
                 displayed items. 'ICON' color/black is the Chord Icons
                 above the staff.  If you turn on BLACK NOTES in the PLAY
                 menu, you may want to turn this to BLACK so chord names
                 match.  Second item is SHOW/HIDE Chord names.  Drums are
                 the drum Icons (useless for now), Forte, Rests, Ctrls,
                 Ctrl Value, Accents, Note Ties, Measure Bars, Sharps/Flats,
                 and Bank Icons can all be hidden or shown with this dialog.
                 Don't forget to unhide if you hide things.  Doesn't reset
                 to normal when a new song is loaded.
 HIDE MESSAGES - Hides most messages in message - scroll box.  Also will
                 MOVE RESTS UP during DELETE RESTS if messages are OFF.
                 This was to clean up songs I was getting.
 SONGFILE INFO - Returns Number of Notes, Rests and the Song File Length.
 SONG HEX DUMP - Displays a hex dump of entire Song or Standard Midi File.
                 Song and Midi Files have unique color codes to highlight
                 areas of special interest.  If you know how the files
                 should be constructed it may be meaningful.  SPACE BAR
                 displays next page, <Q> key aborts anytime.  You may do
                 limited editting of current page shown by pressing the
                 'E' key once.  This displays a cursor which can be moved
                 with the arrow keys.  If any HEX character is typed such
                 as 0-9 or A-F, it replaces the character under cursor and
                 waits for the second character, as all bytes of the file
                 require two HEX 'digits' to define the byte.  To EXIT
                 editting for this page, press RETURN key.  Next page is
                 shown and may be editted (press 'E') or just viewed. 'Q'
                 key exits HEX DUMP DISPLAY.  Changes are retained in
                 their respective buffers, ie, .MID = UNDO buffer and .SNG
                 = SONG buffer.  If SAVE .MID is used on the Midi File,
                 your changes will be saved.  If SAVE SONG is use for the
                 .SNG file, your changes will be saved.  Changes in a .SNG
                 file are not immediately detectable if they are in the
                 header.  The header is read only during LOAD SONG.  You
                 must reload the file just saved to see effect of changes.
                 Sorry, there is no insert/delete byte(s) mode for edit,
                 you may only change the bytes which are already in file.
                 Also, you cannot edit the last page, once the EOF display
                 comes up!  The next keypress will exit the Hex Dumper.
 DEFINE  DRUMS - Calls up Drum Definition Screen.  L-Click and Drag to
                 change number values.  Click on a name to enter a new
                 one.  A single space plus RETURN leaves it blank, and no
                 key pressed except RETURN gives old name back.  BackSpace
                 and Delete keys both DELETE character(s).  R-Click on
                 any name to sound its Drum, providing a Drum Machine or
                 Keyboard is connected and turned on and "listening" on
                 the correct channel.  Save and Load 'Kits' with the
                 Buttons provided.  Exit with the DONE button.
 EDIT PATTERNS - Allows temporary creation of up to 10 patterns.  All will
                 default to 4/4 time with 32nd note beat duration between
                 "columns" on the screen.  Use the keys 0-9 to select a
                 pattern (temporary area).  R-Click on beat columns to
                 exit.  Space bar starts and stops the song and pattern
                 (a song must be loaded to play).  Click any voice name
                 and you may edit its parameters in a Dialogue Box.  These
                 actually update the DEFINE DRUMS buffer and changes here
                 may be seen when you call up DEFINE DRUMS.  DO NOT enter
                 velocities larger than 127 or more chars in the field
                 (between commas) than allowed.  DO NOT delete commas etc.
                 Could have fatal results if you don't know what you are
                 doing!  This option was here before the DEFINE DRUM screen
                 and will probably stay, but in a more user friendly form.
                 If Drums and Song are playing they will automatically
                 Stop upon exit with the RIGHT mouse button.  Save your
                 completed pattern "kit" using the "B" key or go to the
                 DEFINE DRUMS screen and use SAVE button.
 DRUM  MACHINE - Brings up Multi-Button Selector which will be used to
                 select drum patterns and insert special codes and Icons
                 into the music where ever you want changes at play time.
                 The 'Icons' may be added and deleted from the song, but
                 they will be ignored during play, as they aren't linked
                 to the routines to act on them (and which haven't been
                 written yet!).  Sorry, after I got Band in a Box, I wanted
                 drums to sound as good as his!  Started thinking about
                 how to do this, and the project got side stepped.  Hey!
                 What do you want in a FREE program!  Sorry!



