 2.  Standard Midi File player is now 64 Tracks!  This should allow for
     the lengthiest file to be loaded and played.  Also the Midi Buffer
     has been increased to 200K to accomodate long files.  The EVENT
     LIST screen has been updated to allow 64 tracks and you can select
     which you would like to view, as well as apply a channel filter,
     which is needed for Format 0 one track files.

     Pressing the HELP key brings up help text which actually allows you
     to Click on the items it refers to so you can see them work while
     the HELP text is displayed.  Of course if you scroll or redraw the
     screen, then the text will be moved or gone!  When the EVENT LIST
     is displayed for the first time after the program is started, a one
     time Dialogue comes up to give Quick Info about the LISTER.  You
     can press any key or button, or go directly to HELP for more info.

     Read the HELP text to get the details on the EVENT LIST operation.
     You can filter channels/tracks to be viewed by clicking the CHAN
     word just under the file length digits.  You will get a fairly
     large Dialogue Box (64 tracks!) which allows you to turn off any
     Tracks or Channels you want to hide.  Move the cursor with the
     mouse and left click a number to hide it (grey) or show it (black).
     If you right click any number, all of the numbers of the group,
     (Tracks or Channels) will be reversed: those on will go off and
     visa versa.

     If the Tracks selection changes from what it was, the EVENT LIST
     will automatically be restarted and redraw from the start.  The
     Channels selection will not do this, and you can continue to scroll
     if desired or manually redraw/restart by pressing the RETURN key
     or clicking at the bottom between GOTO and DELETE anywhere.  You
     must click the DONE button in the Dialogue Box to close it.

     There is a NEW key (not shown in the HELP text) for filtering
     different types of META events.  The word META at the bottom of the
     screen turns all META events on/off except TEXT which has its own
     control word.  If you press the "H" key for Hide then another big
     Dialogue Box allows hiding nine (9) different types of META Events.
     The UNKNOWN group (item 9) covers events that were UNKNOWN when
     the first MIDI FILE SPEC was circulated.  I don't have INFO on some
     NEW events I am seeing, so they won't have a descriptor under the
     column "EVENT TYPE" and any bytes of data will just be displayed as
     HEX digits to the right of that column.

     The need for the Hide function resulted from the "clutter" of META
     events in many new files I am receiving.  Also, you may want to
     view or not view the TEMPO changes for example, especially when
     there are many!  Of course by turning off NOTES, NOTE OFF, CTRL,
     PCHG, etc. and filtering META for only TEMPO events, you will see
     the TEMPO MAP for the file!

     You can play the file from the EVENT LIST now and even have it
     follow in realtime while scrolling.  It may lag behind if the song
     is to fast or has too many events.  Filter tracks/channels or event
     types to ease its job!  Read the HELP text for more info.


