File Selector Info  (please read NOTE: below indented)   Updated 11-10-95.

1. The DISK ICON calls up various Disk Functions when clicked on.
   RENAME, DELETE, COPY-FILES and MAKE FOLDER.  Click an item, then OK to
   proceed.  You may Cancel anytime.  RENAME & DELETE work on the current
   Name in the Name Box, so select one first before clicking the Disk Icon.
   Format is not implemented yet.  MAKE FOLDER always appends .sng or .mid.
   All operations are confirmed with other dialogs.  Read what they say!
   MULTIDELETE is like 'medley' or list play, except after picking files
   to delete, it deletes them after a confirmation dialog.  I kept getting
   files from CD Roms that were write protected and would crash the program.
   The dialogs that follow MULTIDELETE are asking if its OK to change the
   files attributes automatically, so they can be deleted!  If you don't
   allow this and any file is write-protected (its attribute is read only),
   expect to crash!

2. The ARROW Icon shifts FileNames up if there are more than fit on one
   screen.  The NAME BOX can be clicked to enter or edit a File Name.  Use
   RETURN key to get the Mouse Pointer back.  Click OK box or the RETURN key
   to complete the operation and exit file selector.  Click CANCEL to abort
   and exit.  If you click the word 'DRIVE' you get a dialogue showing the
   remaining bytes on the currently selected Drive (A,B,C etc.) plus the
   length of file (.SNG/.MID) currently in the buffer.  All 'Saves' check
   for disk space before the write and alert you if there is not enough
   room or if the file already exists.

   NOTE: It occurs to me at this late date (nov '95) that auto diskspace
         check on every save, could cause havock with Hard Drive users
         that have big drives.  I don't have a HD and none of my local
         friends (2) do either.  Kind of difficult to develope for equip
         you don't have (sorry if there's a problem).  I don't even know
         if the space allowed for disk space has enough characters allowed!
         The solution, at least temporarily (until I can get some help on
         this), is to only read and write to floppies! (or a ram disk as I
         do).  Also booting the program from a floppy (instead of HD) may
         be needed to avoid the HD all together.  Somebody please let me
         know!  Of course, if no one cares for this FREEWARE then I don't
         have to solve any problems with it!

3. Click the Drive letter below DRIVE to read or re-read any drive.  Make
   sure there is a Disk in any selected!!  If you use a RamDisk or HardDrive
   the 3rd Drive letter will be set accordingly.  When the program is booted,
   the Drive booted from is the default selected when File Selector first
   comes up.  If you don't have either, then the 3rd drive will duplicate
   the 'A' drive.

4. Click the White Path Name area with the Left Button to edit the Path and
   Drive for any of the 3 letters under the word DRIVE.  Drive Letter may be
   selected from any that are available (not greyed).  The *.* extension may
   be selected to see all files on the Disk.  The program normally selects
   the correct extension for you (if not overridden with *.*) when you are
   loading/saving .SNG or .MID files.  Right Clicking the White Path Name
   area exits FOLDERS!

5. FOLDER names are back lighted in grey.  Clicking one automatically opens
   that folder.  When FOLDERS are created, the Extension .SNG or .MID is
   forced and depends on which LOAD/SAVE function you called the Selector
   from (Song Editor or Midi Player)!  If you don't want this, then create
   your folders ahead of time from DESKTOP!  This technique allows the
   maximum number of File Names/Folders to appear on the display and avoids
   the use of the wild card extension (*.*).

6. The EDIT PATH dialoque allows selecting new Drives and extensions easily.
   You may manually edit the Path Name by clicking on it.  A right click
   here will also back out of folders.  To activate the editted pathname you
   must click OK.  Otherwise select CANCEL to abort changes.

7. The COPY function always uses the 3rd Drive Letter as the destination and
   the currently selected drive as the source.  If they are not different no
   copying is done.  Copy was implemented to fill a RamDisk from a floppy
   and also the reverse (if Drive letters are swapped!).  COPY has several
   alerts and can be aborted.

8. The File Selector is also used for 'MEDLEY PLAY' (play list of Songs or
   Midi Files).  It operates a bit differently and has its own instructions
   when called.  The most obvious difference is that File Names do not
   HighLight till selected as part of the list.  Then they are given the
   current sequence number.  Clicking a second time on a name removes it
   from the list.  Playback skips any unused numbers (deleted).  Play also
   aborts if you select an invalid .SNG or .MID file when it comes to it.

   You may set the delay between songs from the opening dialogue.  RIGHT
   CLICK on the OK button to set delay (as it says at bottom of dialog).
   The delay is adjustable from 0 to 15 seconds between songs.  Move the
   mouse pointing hand over the line that shows the delay and left/right
   click (and optionally hold button).  Note: this 'adjustment' technique
   is used in other dialogs as well (octave offset & transpose for example).

   You may also loop the list or play it once by toggling the 'MEDLEY AUTO'
   to 'MEDLEY ONCE' in the Play Menu from Main Screen.  During PLAY the
   Left Button/SPACE aborts play.  Right Button/RETURN skips to next song.

