 8.  On either Midi Player screen, if you are in step mode, the Left
     and Right mouse buttons now simulate playing the file at one of
     three speeds.  These are fixed and not related to the Tempo of
     the file.  They are just a quicker way of listening to and cuing
     up to a point in the file you might want to edit.  You can only
     edit the file on the PARAMETER type screen of course.

     The function that plays the file with the mouse buttons, is not
     using the internal clock, but relys on the delay in executing
     pause statements in Basic.  Any delays caused by controller
     changes on the PARAMETERS screen or Text changes on a KARAOKE
     file on the Piano screen will interfere with exact timing.  That
     is why I say it 'simulates' playing (not exactly!).

     Previously clicking a mouse button stopped stepping.  Now in
     order to stop, you must press RETURN or come to the end of the
     song.  In either case, you will still be in step mode, unless
     you pressed the "P" key to resume normal play (which is another
     way to get out of step mode altogether).  You enter or exit the
     step mode by Clicking the word STEP next to the Tempo Display.
     A Dialogue Box displays indicating the on/off status of STEP.

 9.  The "F" key has been temporarily assigned the function to enable
     the SONG POSITION SLIDER to be a CONTROLLER Slider.  Currently,
     only the numbers change with no other action.  When in this mode
     the SONG POSITION will not be displayed by the Slider!  While
     this mode is active, the CTRL+ ALT+ UP/DWN Arrows will adjust the
     channel number to the left of the Controller name box, and the slider
     will adjust the number to the right (from O to 127).  I am working
     up to the point where you will be able to record controller
     changes, as well as presets, bends, tempos, etc.

     Something that IS active when the "F" key is active, and you are on
     the PARAMETER type screen; and if you have the channel number set
     to an active channel, the selected USER control will cause the
     Slider to move as the control is changed.  Kind of a graphic
     display of the controller in addition to the number changing above.
     The number next to the Controller Name Box doesn't change though,
     only the slider.  This slider is more precise than those on the
     Piano type screen, because I have more pixels to work with.

     The "F" key is a Toggle, so you must press it again to display the
     Song Position and use the Slider to Cue a file (WHILE STOPPED).
     While playing, the "F" key selects a tempo of 240!

     By the way, whenever you want to grab the slider, you don't have to
     actually touch it with the POINTING HAND, you can just press the
     mouse button while the hand is anywhere inside the slider box.
     When you left/right drag the slider moves.  When you release the
     button, the mouse cursor will be on the button 'magically'!

     Another key which was added to the Midi Player screens was the "Q"
     key.  It exits, just like clicking the DONE button.  I added it
     as a Safety exit when I was having trouble leaving the screens
     and left it in the program when the problem was fixed.


