
 1.  Loudness has been implemented.  The number under the word "LOUD"
     is still the velocity of notes/chords being auditioned on the
     edit screen.  However, if you right click the number and then
     move to the Grand Staff, you will see that you have the "EXPR"
     cursor.  You will also see the message "Insert Loudness" in the
     message/scroll box, and a number to the left above the half note.

     On the Grand Staff, right click/drag to set the value desired.
     When it is that which is desired, left click in the column where
     you desire to have the change take effect.  A column similar to a
     Tempo Change column will be inserted which will show "LOUD" and
     its value.

     When a Song starts playing, you will notice that the number under
     the word LOUD changes to 127 (normal), unless you have put a 
     LOUDNESS Change in the first column of the Song.  When the Song
     reaches a LOUDNESS Change in the Song it will update the display.
     Loudness is the "final" computation made when computing any
     velocity before it is sent.  It is Global which means it affects
     all voices/channels/colors playing.  Anything less than 127 will
     subtract the difference between 127 and the value.  For instance
     126 will subtract one (1), 124 will subtract three (3), etc.

     The value of zero (0) is not useable although it displays in the
     message box.  You can't enter a LOUD Change if you try.  This is
     because the actual value is written to the Song File, and all
     zero bytes are considered Blank Columns!  Besides, when you get
     below 40 or so for LOUDNESS, you are subtracting 87 from the
     velocity, and most notes will start to shut off as you continue
     down.  By the time you reach one (1), no notes will be playing
     and you will have "faded out" the Song!

     The algorhythm for Velocities output works like this: One of four
     Velocities is retrieved from those set for the color on the MIDI
     PARAMETERS screen (VEL AC1 AC2 AC3).  Which one depends on whether
     an Accent is being used.  The default with no accent would be the
     value under VEL.  Then any active FORTE marking for the color is
     added/subtracted.  Finally, the LOUDNESS factor is subtracted.
     Of course if LOUDNESS is 127 then no change takes place.  At any
     stage in our computation, if the Velocity goes above 127 or below
     zero (0) then it will be clipped to remain 'legal'!

     Fade Ins and Fade Outs may be implemented with the LOUD function.
     It is also usefull for crescendos and decrescendos providing you
     start at a lower value so that you can run it up when desired!
     I have noticed that several sequenced songs are faded out with the
     use of velocities instead of controllers, I assume because not all
     synths respond to Volume or Expression Controllers.

     To delete a LOUDNESS column, use DELETE BLOCK from the BLOCK pull
     down menu, and delete the column like any other.  It cannot be
     editted by shading it like the Tempos can.  If the value is not
     correct, delete the column, and re-insert the correct LOUD value.


